Hi,
my name is Danny Jessee, and I would like to welcome you to
this module, Secure Parameter Storage using AWS. Let's talk a
little more about parameters.
If you're a developer,
the concept of accessing data from your application's
code should be very familiar to you.
Applications often use variables to maintain parameters in the
form of key‑value pairs, such as API keys,
database connection strings, credentials, or other
application‑specific configuration data.
And it should go without saying that it's never a good idea to store these
kinds of secrets directly in your application's source code.
After all, they're called secrets for a reason.
You probably don't want anyone who happens to get their hands on your
source code to also know your database password,
and in some cases, you as the application developer may not
even be allowed to know these secrets either.
And if any of these secret values happen to change down the road,
you don't want to have to recompile and redeploy your
application just to reflect this change.
Now you're probably already familiar with the concept of a
configuration file where parameters can be stored
separately from your source code.
And configuration files are a great first step when keeping secrets
outside of your code, but wouldn't it be nice to leverage
cloud‑based managed services to ensure we are applying best
practices for secure parameter storage?
AWS provides two such services that we will discuss in this module, the AWS
Systems Manager Parameter Store and the AWS Secrets Manager.
In this module,
we will leverage both of these services to store and retrieve a simple
application secret, a database connection string.
Now here's what a connection string might look like if you were
to directly hard code it in your application,
which we've already said is a terrible security practice.
What we want to do instead is store the secret outside of
our code in one of these AWS services,
so either in Parameter Store or Secrets Manager and instead call that
service from our code to get our parameter's value.
So let's get started by discussing the AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store and how we can use it to securely store and retrieve this secret.